# server-post

This repo contains a RESTful service written in Haskell as requested by MetaLamp (https://rizzoma.com/topic/c27faf1cfa188c1120f59af4c35e6099/0_b_9n8n_8jl2l/).


## Intructions to set up and run

`Stack` was used for managing the packages, it is a fantastic tool that just works. You can find instructions on how to install [here](https://docs.haskellstack.org/en/stable/install_and_upgrade/).

After installing `Stack`, clone this repo and `cd` into the project. In order to build the project, run
```
# download the compiler if needed
stack setup 

# build the project
stack build 
```
Rename (or copy) file `bot.conf.template` to `bot.conf`. You can also create a file `local_bot.conf`, if it is present, the configuration parameters will be determined in accordance with it, otherwise, by `bot.conf`.
That's it! And then when you want to run the service at a port 3000:
```
stack exec server-post-exe
```


You can run the tests with:
```
stack test
```

## Project structure

- `app/Main.hs` - Prepares configs and handles and transfers control to the`Router`
- `server-post.cabal` - `cabal` file automatically generated by `Stack`
- `package.yaml` - the file where we add all the dependencies and project metadata
- `stack.yaml` - `Stack` configuration
- `server.conf` - config file
- `src/` - contains all the code used by this service
    - `Router.hs` - the main router, which will determine the essence of the request and transfer control to the appropriate controller
	- `FromRequst.hs` - common functions used by other modules
    - `Controllers/` - controllers and routers of entities and additional endpoints
    - `Models/` - the entity models that our application uses (e.g. `User`, `Post`)
    - `Servises/` - Services required for the functioning of the application (e.g.`Logger, Config, DB)` 
      - `Impl/` - service implementations
- `test/` - our specs, for testing some internal functions. 
- `sql/` - sql database migration queries. Database is built and minimal initial seeding is ensured
- `bat/`- batch files for easy testing of the application. Contains requests to the server passed by the `curl` utility for all endpoints of entities (for Windows). In addition, `migration.bat` is a request for migration, a `test.bat` is a series of requests to fill the database for testing filtering and sorting of posts, `where-order.bat` - examples of tests for filtering and sorting of posts, `token.bat` - to refresh the token.
- `sh/`- shell script files for easy testing of the application. Contains requests to the server passed by the `curl` utility for all endpoints of entities (for Linux).
- `image/` - folder from which you can upload photos to the database.


## Endpoints

Examples of all endpoints are provided as examples in batch files for Windows (folder 'bat') and files of shell script for Linux (folder 'sh'). Among them:

### Entity endpoints

Designed to perform basic operations on entities - creat, read, update, delete (CRUD)

### Endpoint 'token'

Endpoint of token renewal (at token expiration)

### Photo endpoints

Two endpoints for loading photos into the database from the request body (using the POST method) or from a file (PUT method).

### Viewing pictures

Links for getting avatars ('image') and photos ('photo').

### Endpoint 'publish'

Сreating or republishing an article based on a draft.

### Endpoint for filtering and ordering posts

This same endpoint allows you to get all the comments for a particular post. To do this, in the request path after the token, you must specify the post ID.
Pagination of posts and comments is supported. To do this, you must specify the number of the page of interest as the only parameter.
File 'where-order' (bat or sh) contains examples of using the endpoint for filtering and ordering posts.

### Endpoint 'migration'

Initializing the database.





 

